comics:

1. water treatment + water treatment
racoman.com




2. scada: oil rig -> encounter rock -> increase power supply to meet demand
AVL: integrate a 40foot trailer stuffed lithium ion battery, design it to act as a solid state genset to work in parallell with existing either diesel or liquid natural gas genset (lng).

diesel genset is the standard electrical power generation at a remote oil n gas drill site. the problem with diesel genset is: 
1. environment isse: byproduct  benzene 
2. blackout n brownout. a drill site will lose power bcuz of steep fluctuation in load VS the reaction/response time of the genset
3. operate outside of optimal efficiency: when sizing diesel genset u have to provide full maximum load capability. rarely does the genset require full load at peak efficinecy as peak load happens rarely.

advantage of solid state genset:
1. instantaneous reponse of site load changes has the capability to keep existing genset running at peak efficiency. 
2. can allow for replacement of diesel. with working parallel

by combining solid state (battery) genset wt fossil fuel u can replace diesel.
diesel charge battery 







3. scada: control of pharmaceutical assembly line
without scada system -> cant control temperature, pH leve, pressure -> making tons of garbage

korche xl 800 tablet press
ohara technology





4. saving money wt government incentive program
if they meet these three basic criteria:

scientific or technological advancement
scientific or technological uncertainty
scientific and technological content

sit down wt me to find out if ur qualify



5. PLC: pick up robot:  retrieve warehouse pick data from their Oracle database. Picks are initiated by scanning printed invoices with bar code scanners connected to the PLC controls. This scanned data is retrieved by our software and formatted into a SQL query for the customer database located in Atlanta, Georgia. Location and quantity data from the returned records is then relayed to the PLC controlled robotic pick system. Confirmation of the successful pick is then relayed back to the database.






<<<<<<< HEAD
=======
Captions: Controlled system rocks!!!

What good is an airplane if you are a pilot and you can't make it go where you want it to go?

What good is a chemical products production line if you can't control temperature, pressure and pH in the process and you end up making tons of garbage?

What good is an oven if you can't control the temperature?  (And, does it matter if it's an oven in a kitchen or an oven in a heat-treating department that is used to harden metal parts?)

What good is a pump if you can't control the flow rate it produces?  (And, there are many times when the flow rate must be controlled.)








OLd website script:

Webtronics Automation will save your company money. Through integration of networks, and
implementation of software, we optimize productivity.
Our expertise will ensure your plant is generating fast accurate data, presented how you want to
see it We are both software and hardware integrators.
Our primary goal is to design, program, network and integrate PLC to PC pipelines that will deliver
manufacturing data to satisfy your needs.

For many decades manufacturers have been retrieving production, quality and productivity
data from the shop floor by way of the trusty cllpboard.
The computer age has only slowly infiltrated the area of shop floor data retrieval.Not until
well into the 1990’s did powerful SCADA software arrive on the scene. Software developers
had found an opportunity to provide the non-programmer with a means to retrieve and display
process data.

The successful marketing of SCADA products was boosted by advancements in technology.
The mid and late 90's was a period of technology revolutions. High speed Pentium III driving
the 32 bit “Windows” operating system coupled with low cost memory and hard drive capacity
allowed SCADA applications to grow in complexity, offering high-resolution charts, reparts, and
graphics. Improved networkability of operating systems along with the advent of the Internet
brought “High speed” and “Broad Band" capabilities to the world of SCADA.

Only recently are users coming to the realization that SCADA applications, while being able
to offer all this sizzle and glitz, are only software.
Many SCADA houses are well able to provide their customers with support to configure and
implement reports, charts, screens, menus and even some fundamental code.
However there are important considerations to be addressed outside the realm of PC software.
Integration into existing manufacturing controls can be complex and requires specialized knowledge.

Webtronics Automation has over 60 years of combined industrial automation experience.
We understand the many issues software, electrical, and mechanical that your organization
will have to face during SCADA integration.
We will help your company reach the goal of complete integration of plant data collection.
Our staff of electricians, technicians, millwrights, and information technology personnel know
how to get the job done. We are much more than a simple software integrator: Whether your
company wishes to implement an off the shelf SCADA package or have us previde custom
applications, Webtronics Automation has the in-house resources achieve the goal.

Proper organization is crucial to the success of any type of software implementation. This is
especially so when implementing SCADA. SCADA can and should be made available for
mum-departmental use. Perhaps Quality Assurance has an interest in monitoring defect rates,
scrap rates and process yields. Perhaps automating SPC is a goal. Production would like to identify
manufacturing bottlenecks and productivity issues.
Production rates and order tracking are impartant here. Maintenance would like to be able to identify
causes of unscheduled downtime. Knowledge of the correct number of machine cycles would make
preventative maintenance scheduling more effective. Management would like to minimize material
wastage and maximize worker productivity. Easy access to up to date information is crucial for effective
decision making. Involving all manufacturing departments in the SCADA design and configuration process
is a key to effective implementation. With departmental “wish lists” complete the task of identifying how
to grant those wishes and consequently establishing the project scape begins. Evaluating whether or not
your existing means of control can satisfy the wish list is the crucial next step.
Perhaps the current control systems cannot access some cmcial process data. Conceivably the
Etrumentation required to collect this data may not be compatible with the control system.

It’s has been said that knowing what you want is half the battle. Although knowing what you
want is essential, it is also critical to determine whether or not what you want is already being
measured. If this data is not currently accessible we must determine whether the existing PLC
can accommodate additional instrumentation.
Utilizing the existing PLC hardware is a cost effective approach but hardware limitations may prohibit
placement of additional instrumentation into the existing control systems. If this is the case a decision must be made whether to upgrade, expand, or completely replace the existing controls.
Other options such as stand-alone instruments can also be considered.

Collected data must be reliable and robust. This may require data conditioning within the PLC. Data accumulation and processing places only a small burden on the system resources of most current PLC designs.Alternatively if one were to attempt to apply system “watchdogs” to production lines from the PC platform, operating system resources and timing limitations could result in unreliable data acquisition. Some functions are inherently more reliable when performed at the level of process control.
When modifying PLC code for data collectiOn it is important to separate the data collection/conditioning
code from control-related code. Machine control and safety must always take priority. The data collection sub-routines may be called with every PLC proceSSOr scan or by timed interrupt. Executing code on a timed interval is generally more effective and efficient. For transient events it may be necessary to modify PLC code to "Latch" the condition so that the event is held long enough to be visible to the SCADA software.
This is a notorious area of difficulty for SCADA software packages. Forced by necessity to read data from the PLC only every few milliseconds, shOrt duration events may not be captured. It may be reasonable to consider utilizing a supervisory PLC to gather data from the existing PLCs controlling the process.

A very critical SCADA component is data storage. Data that is graphed, logs events, or is sent
to a report must reslde In some form of electronic storage. Transient data reporting on
immediate conditions that have no relevance in the future need not be stored.
Whether data is generated in the PC as a process "recipe" or retrieved from the machine/process,
all non-immediate data must be safely stored in a database; i.e. “the backbone".
Users can query the database by means of commercial database software or custom applications
to retrieve data relevant to their needs.

Clearly there is far more to SCADA implementation that merely installing software on a PC.
Webtronics Automation will help you clear the fog of complexity surrounding SCADA
implementation.
We will meet with you assess your SCADA needs and we will ptovide a one time, NO COST,
plant evaluation.
Call us Today 905 737-2288







